In this lecture, we look to see how we can find if a button is enabled.
So how to see if a button is enabled.
We use a command called DOT is enabled.
This command will return a true or false value.
There is a neighborhood command text to see if a person has been assigned the disabled attribute.
And if you look at the image below, you'll see disabled is listed in red.
An example of how we might use this command is shown below.
Driver find element buyer I.D. then ID value of bottom one and then I'll use the is enabled method.
Let's try it out.
So to begin, I'm going to walk you through the test.
So I'm going to open up Chrome.
Go to the automation testing website and click on the Buttons link.
Will you be presented with the following page?
So this test is going to focus using this disable button.
And as you can see, I can't select it.
So if I right click and inspect the page and try to select that box and use it to select it all.
You'll see that I can't focus on it.
Which is unlike the others.
Well, I can.
So I'm just going to select this area.
And then in the document object model, you'll see that this line has been selected.
So if I expand that.
You will see that there is a buttons type here.
And if I click on that and then go to runner UPS Velocity panel, you'll see that I'm being I've been
given the following selectors.
So before uses I'm going to go to the clips and use in the class in the last lecture.
I'm going to control C and control V to copy and paste it.
And I'm going to give this new class the name of L five for lecture five and I'm going to call this
is enabled and then click okay.
And if I double click that class, you open it.
So the first thing I'm going to do is get rid of this, this code here because I don't need it and I'm
going to change the address of the get method.
So I am going to use the buttons address on a copy that and replace this like sign.
So I'm going to write driver thought fun element, but don't say yes.
Select the double quotes which I'll leave blank for now.
Dot is enabled and a semicolon.
So I need to go back to the Automation System website and I'm going to pick this top.
So I'm a copy that.
Go back to Eclipse and paste that here.
Now, like the last lecture, I need to output the value of this test to console.
So I'm going to write system thoughts out of print now in open and close in brackets and semicolon and
without the semicolon from this line.
So if I remove it.
And cut this line and then paste it within those brackets.
So I am now going to say this, and what I expect from this test is for it to go to this website and
then check to see if this button is enabled.
And because it should because it is not enabled, it should output false.
So let's try it.
So if I minimize this.
And you'll see in the console output is false.
So if I copied that line.
And pasted it a couple of lines below.
If I run the same test, but this time for batsmen free.
So far.
Copy this selector and paste that here.
So it is parts in here is enabled.
I can click it.
So I expect the first test, which is for bottom four.
So for this one, so it's a false.
And then the second test for bottom free to return.
True.
So let me say this class and try running it again.
And if I go back to Eclipse.
You'll see the first one is false as expected, and the second one is true.
So I hope you found this lecture useful.
And I look forward to speaking to you in the next lecture.